https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/ACM-34730 Update the Search API documentation reference -- post GA 2.17.1 (#8909)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: apis/searchapi.json.adoc

[#search-api]
= Search API

The search service provides a GraphQL API endpoint that allows applications to query for indexed resources.

== Overview

> Use the Search API to query resources that match filters or keywords, and to watch for resource changes across your managed clusters. This document explains how to access the GraphQL endpoint and enable the schema documentation.

Reviewer: Suggestion to be user-focused
```suggestion
Use the Search GraphQL API endpoint to query indexed resources.

Use the Search API to query resources that match filters or keywords, and to watch for resource changes across your managed clusters. Access the GraphQL endpoint and enable the schema documentation.
```

== Configure API access

> Create a route to access the Search API external from your cluster with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a route to access the Search API externally from your cluster with the following command:
```

[source,bash]
----
oc create route passthrough search-api --service=search-search-api -n open-cluster-management
----

*Important:* You must configure your route to secure your environment. See link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.20/html-single/ingress_and_load_balancing/index#configuring-routes[Configuring Routes] in the {ocp-short} documentation for more details.

== Enable API documentation

> Before you can access the Search API documentation, you must update the search-v2-operator resource to enable the `API_DOCUMENTATION` environment variable on the `search-api` deployment. Run the following command to update it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you can access the Search API documentation, you must update the `search-v2-operator` resource to enable the `API_DOCUMENTATION` environment variable on the `search-api` deployment. To edit the resource, run the following command:
```

[source,bash]
----
oc patch search -n open-cluster-management search-v2-operator --type json -p '[{"op": "add", "path": "/spec/deployments/queryapi/envVar", "value": [{"name": "API_DOCUMENTATION", "value": "true"}]}]'
----

== Query examples

[source,json]
----
{
  "query": "type SearchResult {count: Intitems: [Map]related: [SearchRelatedResult]} type SearchRelatedResult {kind: String!count: Intitems: [Map]}",
  "variables": {
    "input": [
      {
        "keywords": [],
        "filters": [
          {
            "property": "kind",
            "values": [
              "Deployment"
            ]
          }
        ],
        "limit": 10,
        "offset": 5,
        "orderBy": "name asc"
      }
    ]
  }
}
----

== Search for deployments

> Query:

Reviewer: Suggesting to prompt the user for the example. Let me know your thoughts
```suggestion
Use the following query:
```

[source,graphql]
----
query mySearch($input: [SearchInput]) {
    search(input: $input) {
    		items
        }
}
----

> Variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following variables:
```

[source,graphql]
----
{"input":[
    {
        "keywords":[],
        "filters":[
            {"property":"kind","values":["Deployment"]}],
        "limit":10
    }
]}
----

== Search for pods

> Query:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following query:
```

[source,graphql]
----
query mySearch($input: [SearchInput]) {
    search(input: $input) {
    		items
        }
}
----

> Variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following variables:
```

[#search-api]
= Search API

> Use the Search API to query resources that match filters or keywords, and to view resource changes across your managed clusters. Access the GraphQL endpoint and enable the schema documentation.

Reviewer: @jlpadilla what are your thoughts about adding a query example to view resources?

Author: The 2 sample queries here return resources. "Resource" is the generic term, Deployments, Pods, Policies, ManagedCluster, etc are specific resource kinds.

Would it help to include a sample output? I left it out because the output is long and ugly JSON text.

> Use the Search API to query resources that match filters or keywords, and for you to view resource changes across your managed clusters. Access the GraphQL endpoint and enable the schema documentation.

Reviewer: @jlpadilla one more question before we merge, how do users view the resources?

Author: Users "view" the resources mostly the terminal, as JSON text. 
They could also use more visual tools like [GraphiQL](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql#graphiql) or [Postman](https://learning.postman.com/docs/use/send-requests/protocols/graphql/graphql-client-interface/)
These tools also render the documentation nicely. You chan see the screenshots in the links I added.

== Configure API access

Create a route to access the Search API externally from your cluster with the following command:

[source,bash]
----
oc create route passthrough search-api --service=search-search-api -n open-cluster-management
----

*Important:* You must configure your route to secure your environment. See link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.20/html-single/ingress_and_load_balancing/index#configuring-routes[Configuring Routes] in the {ocp-short} documentation for more details.

== Enable API documentation

Before you can access the Search API documentation, you must update the `search-v2-operator` resource to enable the `API_DOCUMENTATION` environment variable on the `search-api` deployment. To edit the resource, run the following command:

[source,bash]
----
oc patch search -n open-cluster-management search-v2-operator --type json -p '[{"op": "add", "path": "/spec/deployments/queryapi/envVar", "value": [{"name": "API_DOCUMENTATION", "value": "true"}]}]'
----

== Query examples

> == Search for deployments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Search for deployments
```

Use the following query:

[source,graphql]
----
query mySearch($input: [SearchInput]) {
    search(input: $input) {
    		items
        }
}
----

Use the following variables:

[source,graphql]
----
{"input":[
    {
        "keywords": [],
        "filters": [
          {
            "property": "kind",
            "values": [
              "Deployment"
            ]
          }
        ],
        "limit": 10,
        "offset": 5,
        "orderBy": "name asc"
    }
]}
----

> == Search for pods with the label app=search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Search for pods with the label `app=search`
```
